<chapter id="effectimages">
<chapterinfo>

<authorgroup>
    <author>
        <firstname>Gilles</firstname><surname>Caulier</surname>
        <affiliation><address><email>caulier dot gilles at gmail dot com</email></address></affiliation>
    </author>
</authorgroup>

<abstract>
<para>
The Kipi Effect Images plugin is a tool for to add a special effect to the images.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Kipi</keyword>
</keywordset>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Effect Images</title>

<para>

This plugin can be used for batch FX transforming images in an Album.
 It uses the <command>convert</command> program from the
 <application>ImageMagick</application> package. An image effect
 preview (partial or full) is also available.
 Eleven FX filter types have been implemented:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Adaptive threshold</guilabel>: perform local adaptive
    thresholding.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Charcoal</guilabel>: simulate a charcoal drawing.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Detect edges</guilabel>: detect edges within an image.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Emboss</guilabel>: returns a grayscale image with a
    three-dimensional effect.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Implode</guilabel>: implode image pixels about the center.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Paint</guilabel>: applies a special effect filter that
    simulates an oil painting.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Shade light</guilabel>: shines a distant light on an image
    to create a three-dimensional effect.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Solarize</guilabel>: negate all pixels above the threshold level.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Spread</guilabel>: this is a special effects method that
randomly displaces each pixel in a block defined by the radius parameter.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Swirl</guilabel>: swirls the pixels about the center of the image.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Wave</guilabel>: creates a ripple effect in the image
    by shifting the pixels vertically along a sine wave.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
<ulink url="http://digikamplugins.free.fr/ImagesGallerySamples/MultipleAlbums/EffectImages/index.html">
You can see some samples built with this plugin at this &URL;</ulink>
</para>

</chapter>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

