<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
 <!ENTITY kappname "&kipi;">
 <!ENTITY package "extragear-graphics">
 <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
 <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
 <!ENTITY doc-acquireimages SYSTEM "acquireimages.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-colorimages SYSTEM "colorimages.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-convertimages SYSTEM "convertimages.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-effectimages SYSTEM "effectimages.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-filterimages SYSTEM "filterimages.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-flickrexport SYSTEM "flickrexport.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-geolocation SYSTEM "geolocation.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-imagesgallery SYSTEM "imagesgallery.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-imageviewer SYSTEM "imageviewer.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-jpeglossless SYSTEM "jpeglossless.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-metadataeditor SYSTEM "metadataeditor.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-printwizard SYSTEM "printwizard.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-rawconverter SYSTEM "rawconverter.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-recompressimages SYSTEM "recompressimages.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-renameimages SYSTEM "renameimages.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-resizeimages SYSTEM "resizeimages.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-sendimages SYSTEM "sendimages.docbook">
 <!ENTITY doc-slideshow SYSTEM "slideshow.docbook">
]>
  <!-- FIXME link to http://digikam.org -->
<book lang="&language;" id="kipi-handbook">
<title>The Kipi Plugins Handbook</title>
<bookinfo>
<title>The Kipi Plugins Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
    <author>
        <firstname>Gilles</firstname><surname>Caulier</surname>
        <affiliation><address><email>caulier dot gilles at gmail dot com</email></address></affiliation>
    </author>

    <author>
        <firstname>Gerhard</firstname><surname>Kulzer</surname>
        <affiliation><address><email>gerhard_at_kulzer.net</email></address></affiliation>
    </author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>

<date>2008-02-13</date>
<releaseinfo>0.1.3</releaseinfo> <!-- Used Kicker version here -->

<copyright>
<year>2004-2008</year>
<holder>The Kipi developers team</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice id="legalnotice">&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<abstract>
<para>
This is the handbook for the plugins of Kipi, the &kde; Image Plugins Interface.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Kipi</keyword>
<keyword>Plugins</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction to Kipi Plugins</title>

<para>
One of the nicest things about &kde; photo management programs like &digikam;,
<application>KPhotoAlbum</application>, <application>Gwenview</application> and
<application>ShowImg</application> is how easily their functionality can be
extended, by using plugins. The Kde Image Plugins Interface (KIPI) project can
manipulate image files in almost any way that users can. Their advantage is that
it is much easier to add capabiltiies to the host application by writing a small
plugin rather than by modifying the host application's core. Many valuable plugins
have C++ source code that only amounts to 100-200 lines or so.
</para>

<para>
Kipi plugins are additional functions for the &kde; Image Managment Host Programs.
They can add extra menus and shortcuts, and extend the host program's features.
You can install as many or as few as you like, from within host programs.
</para>

<para>
More information on using and enabling the plugins you want is available in the
host program's handbook.
</para>

<para>
The plugins available in this handbook are:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="acquireimages">Acquire Images plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>The Calendar plugin is a tool to create calendar from image collections</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="colorimages">Color Images plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="convertimages">Convert Images plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="effectimages">Effect Images plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="filterimages">Filter Images plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>The Find Duplicate Images plugin is a tool for find duplicate 
photograph on your image collections</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="flickrexport">Remote Flickr Export plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>The Gallery Export plugin is a tool for export image collections to a remote Gallery server</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="geolocation">Geolocation plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="imagesgallery">Images Gallery plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="imageviewer">OpenGL Imageviewer plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="jpeglossless">JPEG Loss Less plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="metadataeditor">Metadata Editor plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="printwizard">Print Wizard plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="rawconverter">Raw Converter plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="recompressimages">Recompress Images plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="renameimages">Rename Images plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="resizeimages">Resize Images plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="sendimages">Send Images plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="slideshow">Slide Show plugin</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>The Time Adjust plugin is a tool for adjusting image files timestamp</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para id="missing-plugin-docs">
A lot of Kipi plugins currently have no
documentation.  If you are interested in rectifying that situation,
please contact the Kipi team mailing list at <email>kde-imaging@kde.org</email>.
</para>

</chapter>

&doc-acquireimages;
&doc-colorimages;
&doc-convertimages;
&doc-effectimages;
&doc-filterimages;
&doc-flickrexport;
&doc-geolocation;
&doc-imagesgallery;
&doc-imageviewer;
&doc-jpeglossless;
&doc-metadataeditor;
&doc-printwizard;
&doc-rawconverter;
&doc-recompressimages;
&doc-renameimages;
&doc-resizeimages;
&doc-sendimages;
&doc-slideshow;
<!--disabled due to lack of dbus command
        http://lists.kde.org/?l=kde-imaging&m=131279555904019&w=2
&doc-wallpaper;-->

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
Copyrights for each plugin are listed in the applicable chapter.
</para>

<para>
All Pictures copyrighted 2004-2007 by Gilles Caulier
<email>caulier dot gilles at gmail dot com</email> and Gerhard Kulzer
<email>gerhard_at_kulzer.net</email>.
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<!--
<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>
<para>To be written
</para>
</appendix>
-->

</book>
